
Teaching Notes: Semester 1- Session 4
with Ps Krista Crawford

Key Scriptures:

Joshua 24:15
"As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord".

All the time. On any day. In any season. In any way, we can. We will serve the Lord.
It's a life decision, that is deep in our hearts and isn't something we decide about
according to how we feel or what stage of life we are in.

It's WHO WE ARE. Our house, our family, permeates a culture that serves the Lord. It's
our DNA, our worldview is filtered through it. We serve the Lord.

Colossians 3:23-24

"Work willingly at whatever you do, as though you were working for the Lord rather
than for people. Remember that the Lord will give you an inheritance as your reward
and that the Master you are serving is Christ."

Again, this is what we do. We work willingly unto the Lord, with our family. It's what we
do. It's our heart and our desire to do so.

The Lord generously promises us an inheritance for doing so. We do it all unto Jesus.
Before we were married, when we were married. Before we were parents when we
were parents.

Isaiah 6:8
"Then | heard the voice of the Lord, saying, "Whom shall | send, and who will go for
Us?" Then | said, "Here am |. Send me!"

Our family is here to do whatever the Lord sends us to do. Our lives are His. In his
hands, and under his guidance and sovereignty.

He is faithful to us and our children, and we desire to be faithful in our service to Him.
What we do, how we do it, when we do it — we just want to be willing! And we trust the
Lord to direct our steps and path as we do this while we raise our family.





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_3.png
1 Chronicles has some chapters that people often skip over — lists of genealogy and
descendants. I've put the chapters in full in your notes, and you can read through them
later, but I just want to pull out a point from it that we probably skip over when we are
skipping over the lists of names!

The point here is FAMILY.

These lists are of how God ordained and chose family groups to take care of the
various areas of ministry in David's temple. God didn't just give the ministry to the
fathers, but also the sons.

They embarked on these responsibilities and leadership roles together.

They TRAINED their sons in the skills needed.

They developed them and gave them responsibilities.

They stepped forward as family groups.

1 Chronicles 25 (NIV)
The Musicians

25 David, together with the commanders of the army, set apart some of the sons of
Asaph, Heman and Jeduthun for the ministry of prophesying, accompanied by harps,
lures and cymbals. Here is the list of the men who performed this service:

2 from the sons of Asaph:

Zakkur, Joseph, Nethaniah and Asarelah. The sons of Asaph were under the
supervision of Asaph, who prophesied under the king’s supervision.

3 As for Jeduthun, from his sons:

Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei,a] Hashabiah and Mattithiah, six in all, under the
supervision of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied, using the harp in thanking and
praising the Lord.

4 As for Heman, from his sons:

Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shubael and Jerimoth; Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah,
Giddalti and Romamti-Ezer; Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir and Mahazioth. 5 (ALL
these were sons of Heman the king’s seer. They were given to him through the
promises of God to exalt him. God gave Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.)

city MINISTRY &
IMPACT LEADERSHIP
iy §=DEVNEL@PMENT



Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_4.png
6 All these men were under the supervision of their father for the music of the temple
of the Lord, with cymbals, lyres and harps, for the ministry at the house of God.

Asaph, Jeduthun and Heman were under the supervision of the king. 7 Along with their
relatives — all of them trained and skilled in music for the Lord — they numbered 288.
8 Young and old alike, teacher as well as student, cast lots for their duties.
9 The first lot, which was for Asaph, fell to Joseph,
his sons and relatives[b]  12[c]

the second to Gedaliah,

him and his relatives andsons 12

10 the third to Zakkur,

his sons and relatives 12

11 the fourth to Izri,[d]

his sons and relatives 12

12 the fifth to Nethaniah,

his sons and relatives 12

13 the sixth to Bukkiah,

his sons and relatives 12

14 the seventh to Jesarelah,[e]

his sons and relatives 12

15 the eighth to Jeshaiah,

his sons and relatives 12

16 the ninth to Mattaniah,

his sons and relatives 12

17 the tenth to Shimei,

his sons and relatives 12

18 the eleventh to AzarelL[f]

his sons and relatives 12

19 the twelfth to Hashabiah,

his sons and relatives 12

20 the thirteenth to Shubael,

his sons and relatives 12

21 the fourteenth to Mattithiah,

his sons and relatives 12

22 the fifteenth to Jerimoth,

his sons and relatives 12

23 the sixteenth to Hananiah,

his sons and relatives 12

24 the seventeenth to Joshbekashah,

his sons and relatives 12

25 the eighteenth to Hanani,





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_5.png
his sons and relatives 12

26 the nineteenth to Mallothi,

his sons and relatives 12

27 the twentieth to Eliathah,

his sons and relatives 12

28 the twenty-first to Hothir,

his sons and relatives 12

29 the twenty-second to Giddalti,
his sons and relatives 12

30 the twenty-third to Mahazioth,
his sons and relatives 12

31 the twenty-fourth to Romamti-Ezer,
his sons and relatives 12

1 Chronicles 26 (NIV)
The Gatekeepers

26 The divisions of the gatekeepers:

from the Korahites: Meshelemiah son of Kore, one of the sons of Asaph.
2 Meshelemiah had sons:
Zechariah the firstborn,
Jediael the second,

Zebadiah the third,

Jathniel the fourth,

3 Elam the fifth,

Jehohanan the sixth

and Eliehoenai the seventh.

4 Obed-Edom also had sons:
Shemaiah the firstborn,





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_6.png
Jehozabad the second,

Joah the third,

Sakar the fourth,

Nethanel the fifth,

5 Ammiel the sixth,

Issachar the seventh

and Peullethai the eighth.

(For God had blessed Obed-Edom.)

6 Obed-Edom’s son Shemaiah also had sons, who were leaders in their father’s
family because they were very capable men. 7 The sons of Shemaiah: Othni,
Rephael, Obed and Elzabad; his relatives Elihu and Semakiah were also able men. 8
All these were descendants of Obed-Edom; they and their sons and their relatives
were capable men with the strength to do the work — descendants of Obed-Edom,

62 in all.

9 Meshelemiah had sons and relatives, who were able men — 18 in all.

10 Hosah the Merarite had sons: Shimri the first (although he was not the firstborn, his
father had appointed him the first), 11 Hilkiah the second, Tabaliah the third and
Zechariah the fourth. The sons and relatives of Hosah were 13 in all.

12 These divisions of the gatekeepers, through their leaders, had duties for
ministering in the temple of the Lord, just as their relatives had. 13 Lots were cast
for each gate, according to their families, young and old alike.

14 The lot for the East Gate fell to Shelemiah.[a] Then lots were cast for his son
Zechariah, a wise counsellor, and the lot for the North Gate fell to him. 15 The lot
for the South Gate fell to Obed-Edom, and the lot for the storehouse fell to his sons.
16 The lots for the West Gate and the Shalleketh Gate on the upper road fell to
Shuppim and Hosah.





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_7.png
Guard was alongside guard: 17 there were six Levites a day on the east, four a day on
the north, four a day on the south and two at a time at the storehouse. 18 As for the
court[b] to the west, there were four at the road and two at the court{c] itself.

19 These were the divisions of the gatekeepers who were descendants of Korah and
Merari.
The treasurers and other officials

20 Their fellow Levites were[d] in charge of the treasuries of the house of God
and the treasuries for the dedicated things.

21 The descendants of Ladan, who were Gershonites through Ladan and who were
heads of families belonging to Ladan the Gershonite, were Jehieli, 22 the sons of
Jehieli, Zetham and his brother Joel. They were in charge of the treasuries of the
temple of the Lord.

23 From the Amramites, the Izharites, the Hebronites and the Uzzielites:
24 Shubael, a descendant of Gershom son of Moses, was the official in charge of the

treasuries. 25 His relatives through Eliezer: Rehabiah his son, Jeshaiah his son, Joram
his son, Zikri his son and Shelomith his son. 26 Shelomith and his relatives were in

charge of all the treasuries for the things dedicated by King David, by the heads of
families who were the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, and
by the other army commanders. 27 Some of the plunder taken in battle they dedicated
for the repair of the temple of the Lord. 28 And everything dedicated by Samuel the
seer and by Saul son of Kish, Abner son of Ner and Joab son of Zeruiah, and all
the other dedicated things were in the care of Shelomith and his relatives.

29 From the Izharites: Kenaniah and his sons were assigned duties away from the
temple, as officials and judges over Israel.

30 From the Hebronites: Hashabiah and his relatives — seventeen hundred able
men — were responsible in Israel west of the Jordan for all the work of the Lord
and for the king’s service. 31 As for the Hebronites, Jeriah was their chief according
to the genealogical records of their families. In the fortieth year of David’s reign a
search was made in the records, and capable men among the Hebronites were found
at Jazer in Gilead. 32 Jeriah had two thousand seven hundred relatives, who were
able men and heads of families, and King David put them in charge of the Reubenites,
the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh for every matter pertaining to God and for
the affairs of the king.





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_8.png
They served God together and trained their young sons up so that they too became
accomplished and skilful. Regardless of age, they worked and served together.

This is a family deal. We're all in this!
Bit of background and context for my ministry life:

We have 5 kids. Our eldest is 20 and our youngest is 3.

I've been on staff at church since before they were born, and have worked on staff all
through their lives, except for maternity leaves.

My parents weren't on church staff, but my whole life they were elders and leaders.
Most nights of the week there was a church meeting in our lounge — Elders meeting
one night, Finance team meeting another night, New Building Committee another.
When my brother and | left home, my parents went into a mission’s team for the next
seasons of their lives.

When they returned from that they came to live in an apartment attached to our house,
and they said their ministry role at City impact was to care for our kids while Greg and
| ministered and lead teams.

Serving, leading, and being at church is normal life. It's not additional.

It's not sometimes.

It's life. Normal life.

KINGDOM BUILDERS MINDSET

Your mind-set about LEADING and HAVING A FAMILY will be very important.

Is it something you give a bit of leftover time to, or is building the church your life?
BUILDING the CHURCH is our calling.

It's not about WHICH role or task you are doing — i.e. leader of the usher's team, that's
your current responsibility. That can change — depending on your seasons in life. But
your CALLING is to build the Kingdom of God here on earth.

| have always known that my calling is to build the church, in this case, City Impact
Church and to serve our Senior Pastors.

The job/role/position changes and evolves into different things, but my calling remains
the same.





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_9.png
You can change WHAT you do at different times of your life — which team, which role,
that can ebb and flow with your capacity, health etc.

But never let go of the calling to build the Kingdom.

Let that be front and centre, that is what you live for — you don't live for holding
together your role as a worship leader or a kid’s church leader.

If we have our identity around the wrong way (attached to the ROLE) then the enemy
can so easily make us feel torn, guilty, and stressed.

So the mind-set is important. The heart of it is important.

If | know my heart is to build the Kingdom — | will do everything | ever can to do that.
When our heart is to be KINGDOM BUILDERS, then we can adjust our sails with the
winds of life, we can be flexible and change when needed, and we will retain the

clarity needed to make good decisions — good life choices for every part of our life.

The role and level of responsibility can be part of the choice in seasons, but don't step
away from being a Kingdom Builder in any season!

Leading, serving and ministering - This is normal. This is life.
This isn't a 2-year stint as president of the tennis club or board member of the PTA.

This is living your life to the fullest of your abilities and gifts as a Christian leader.

It's how you'll live with your spouse, your children and one day your grandchildren.
Be a family of Kingdom Builders.

It's not compartmentalised from the rest of our life — that only causes more problems
and tensions. It's who we are and what we do.

We live our lives for Christ, we live our lives as labourers bringing in the harvest. Your
character, actions, and values are all intrinsic to this.

It doesn't come and go.

Yes, the roles might, but the commitment to spending your life extending the Kingdom
doesn't.

This isn't something that takes you away from your family, it's something you do WITH
your family.





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_10.png
The culture of your family — serving people, being at Wed night prayer, being early to
set up, having people in your home to encourage, counsel, and train, it's the culture of
your family.

It was the culture my parents raised me in and the culture I'm raising my children in.
Seasons change. Be flexible with the season... don't be rigid.
Be diligent, be disciplined, but not rigid — rigid will suffocate you!

| grew up thinking serving God every day was normal! It's about being allin.

It's not separate from the rest of your life. It IS your life!

We see this with the list of families in Chronicles — they did it together, and they were
known for it — if anything was their identity this was! We still all know who the Levites
are and that they were a ministry family thousands of years later.

So our mind-set as Kingdom Builders needs to be clear — that this is part of who | am
and who my family is, and we do this together.

We minister, we lead, and we make a way for others.

It's an extension of who we are, not a separate part of our lives for a few hours
designated a week.

We THINK like people who have given our lives fully to Christ to serve Him.

KINGDOM BUILDERS KEEP
THEIR EYE ON THE BIG PICTURE

Have the wisdom to know what is needed, where, today.
Look at the big picture, the long term, and what is needed to be prioritised at this
moment for the sake of longevity.

We need to throw out the word BALANCE. And old thrashed around the concept of
trying to find balance in life.

Balance implies equal parts, evenly distributed and then guarded to keep it so. While
the IDEA of balance is fine, if we hold too hard to it, we find it quite unobtainable and
then we let people down as expectations aren't met.

Replace the idea of balance with wisdom to have a view of the big picture and
what is most important right now. Today/this week/this month.





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_11.png
| learnt early on as a young mum, that the fastest way to torture myself in
ministry was to try and give everything equal parts of me.

When | put a big push and effort into Global Impact or weeks of Christmas
rehearsals, or a few nights in a row into walking someone through a heart
breaking situation it didn't mean | loved those things more than | loved my
family. It meant that was the thing that needed my extra efforts this week. | had
to keep an eye on the big picture to see that.

| soon learnt that trying to BALANCE required things | couldn't keep up with. If
| went to youth camp without my kids for 3 days — did | owe them 3 days of me
just being at home? Well, that might be manageable, but not scalable. Because
when | travelled to the USA for 4 weeks on a ministry trip, did | owe my family
4 weeks of me being at home solely attending to them? See how balance
becomes impossible torture!

When | travel for weeks at a time, my kids have the time of their lives! | planned
for it, left letters, treats and vouchers. They had special times with their
grandparents, they caught the plane to Wellington to stay with their aunt and
uncle for weeks, they did road trips, and they got to live at Aunty Mary-Kath
and Uncle Isaacs's house. It wasn't awful, it was special. | didn't OWE them
anything for it. God was faithful to them as | did the ministry He had asked of
me.

Greg used to say to me 'if you don't want to leave the kids right now, then say
you can't go this time. But know that the kids will be fine, so you should take
the opportunity and love every minute of it".

We made decisions about what was best for the kids at different stages - we
would weigh up what was needed at home as to whether just one of us went
ona ministry trip, or both of us.

Again, the Holy Spirit will give you wise decisions.

I'm using trips as an example — but you could apply that to anything that you
need to work out.

So it wasn't about equality. "Equal" creates an unrealistic expectation that
generally can't be fulfilled.





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_12.png
Look for the opportunities to do special things within those busy weeks that
mean something to others in your life. Finding little moments to share in a busy
day, leaving treats at home for them, taking a day off afterwards and keeping
the kids home to have a day together.

It was about working out how to meet the needs of different things at different
times. When | got home from a long trip, it wasn't realistic to take 3 or 4 weeks
off work to 'repay' my family — and the attitude behind that would be stressful
anyway, it would be an expectation that would be too hard to meet.

But my family need some quality time from me — without distractions, time that
showed them they were my focus and my treasure. So | would take a few days
off to be at home, to re-fill those relationships.

In those days it would be important to not fill the days with other distractions —
like popping out to something else and jamming other things in.

They needed the sense that right now, they were my focus and my number one
priority.

That still small voice. That little check. Some days babysitters are fine, some
days you just know in your heart that today is not the day for it. Maybe just one
child isn't going to cope. So ask the Holy Spirit for the wisdom - on how to meet
the commitment you have and meet the needs of your child/family.
Boundaries and Balance aren't the same things. Sometimes we need to know
a few boundaries for when we make choices. An example of this for Greg and |
would be invitations to weddings, engagement parties, 21st etc. Which we love,
by the way!! But if we went to everything we were invited to, when our children
would be babysat nearly every day of the weekend. When they were very little
we just took them along to parties with us (where possible), but once they were
a bit older that doesn't necessarily work. So we needed to put some boundaries
around the way we responded to invitations and sometimes just one of us goes.
The kids need to know that you aren't going to go to every single thing.
Ministry kids wait a lot!

They wait after meetings and after church, so we make sure our kids aren't
waiting at home for us all the time too.

It can get intense and full on at times, so deliberately pause and BE
INTENTIONAL in meeting their needs.

Be present when you're present. Phone away.

Give them as good as you give others! Look at the big picture — does it matter
if you put your phone away during dinner — not for your emails, but it matters
for your kids!





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_13.png
Be true to your word with your kids and spouse, the same as you are to those
you lead!

Give CLEAR expectations of what is involved in what you're doing. | know as a
wife | want to know Greg's plans — not so! can control the plans, but so | know
what to expect. Is he going to be home at a certain time of the day, will we be
doing something together or am | taking care of it etc. Once | know, I'm happy
to get on with it, but frustration comes when you have an unmet expectation.
The same is important with our kids. Let them know what you are doing, and
when you'll be back to do something with them.

KINGDOM BUILDERS
BUILD KINGDOM BUILDERS

HOW do we do this with our kids? Perks. Everyone loves PERKS!

.

Make it fun and create an adventure out of it.

Our kids have travelled with us - from as simple as different campuses (to MW
when we first opened it and all of us were on a preaching roster there), to diff
NZ campuses to overseas missions.

We did this for a few reasons —

So they could be with us if we were travelling regularly.

Because its' FUN and builds special memories — sometimes all of us, sometimes
one kid with dad.

So they would grow to have a heart for what we have a heart for So they would
see and be passionate about what God has called our family too.

So they would know that they were important to Greg and me and we wanted
them with us.

Ps Paul Adams had a list on the fridge of the kids' names and if your name was
next on the list, you got the next outing with him. One kid might go somewhere
just down the road one day, and the next kid up got a trip in an aeroplane, but
the list kept rolling!

Build memories while building the church.

Do the crazy stuff around the building and in the car park with your kids. Come
early so they can have rides with Uncle Hans in the golf cart and lollies for
breakfast from the Volunteers' lounge.

They get to see cool things and meet exciting people.





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_14.png
They get to spend time with other leaders who are on fire and living for Jesus
They get to be loved and treated, babysat, and mentored by the rest of your
team.

They are rubbing their shoulders with other people who are putting the kingdom
first.

This is GREAT STUFF for building the next generation of Kingdom Builders!
And is not something we should feel guilty about!

KINGDOM BUILDERS
ARE LIE SLAYERS

The enemy tries to steal opportunities from us.
He whispers everything that could go wrong for us and our family.

He tries to tell us that our kids will be wounded by us spending time building the
church.

This causes us to fear that serving God in an increased capacity will cause harm to
our kids. And that's a terrible fear to have!

We need to remember we are building a legacy, building their future that God has
called us to this and he choose these kids for our families.

What a shrewd tactic of the enemy, to press down on the hearts of parents about their
children.
Say no to that!

By having our families with us when we minister and lead we are raising children who
are compassionate, generous with time and money, and loving towards others.

We know that God brings conviction and the enemy brings condemnation.

Conviction isn't always to stop you from doing something bad.
Having a conviction to do something, gives you passion and determination.

So find a way to do it!
Hold to the conviction that God gave you about doing it, and don't let the enemy
condemn you for it.

The enemy will always try to bring condemnation to your conviction.

city MINISTRY &
IMPACT LEADERSHIP
ey «(DEVELOPMENT



Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_15.png
He will stir up guilt, failings, stress, distress, fear and worry about your family.
He will try to condemn you for time spent, the money given, efforts sown.
He will try to tell you that your children are suffering because you are serving.

He will fail at this attempt to make you give up, go inward and go home, because
you know you are called, you hold to your convictions and walk in the
generational promises of God.

You are building beyond the temporal things of earth.
And your children will do this with you.
If they aren't today, then believe they will one day.

KINGDOM BUILDERS ARE ON

Greg is a great example of leading and ministering being in his DNA and | get so
excited about how our kids will learn from him.

Being with a ministry dad, or a leading dad doesn't mean the kids are second to
everyone else. It means they learn to prefer others with the right heart and intention.

When our kids go out with Greg, they will inevitably be wau-laid. It will take forever to
do that quick trip to the mall or drive somewhere. Why?
Because Greg is always ON.

He is always building the Kingdom.
Is he always walking around the mall or airport as the Campus Pastor? No.
He's walking around in ministry mode — ministering to people. It's who he is.

So at the mall, he stops for Every. Single. Person he knows might know, might have
once known, or maybe met at a funeral!

When he driving he stops for every person with a flat tyre etc. He knows people
everywhere.

Are our kids being treated as not important when he gives his attention to these other
people while out with dad?

No.

What they are getting is a role model who prefers others to himself EVERY SINGLE
TIME.





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_16.png
A role model who believes every person is valuable and deserves you to stop and
speak to them.

A role model who speaks life to strangers, who offers help, who goes out of his way
and allows his day to be interrupted by what others need.

Our children will be better people, and powerful Kingdom Builders, because they learn
that.

They see that Dad spends time with each person at church who needs it. That he
doesn't pick and choose who he is kind to, or who he prays with.

They see that on Sunday getting home for his lunch is not important, but making
people feel seen, loved, noticed, and cared for is important.

They see that stopping to speak slowly and carefully with a person who speaks
another language is not a bother but is important to them.

They see that listening to the last person as you try to leave the car park is important.
So do my children suffer because Greg cares for people?

No.

They are being raised to love others and minister to them wherever and whenever.

What they are seeing is a man of conviction who is dedicated daily (and nightly) to

serving the Lord by serving people.

Greg is not tied up with his ROLE. He is not tied up with his JOB.

He is about the Father's business.

And he is raising his family up to do the same.

This is how you lead and do family and ministry at the same time.

RAPID FIRE TIPS FOR
FAMILIES IN LEADERSHIP AND MINISTRY

Don't give your family your leftovers.

We need to apply sacred stewardship to our children. We are to lead and
minister to them!

Build friendships with other families who lead and serve, and become family
with them.

Find others who are leading the same life as you and raise your family’s
together, picking up the slack for each other and strengthening each other.

cry MINISTRY &
IMPACT LEADERSHIP
ay «DEVELOPMENT



Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_17.png
If you look at others who aren't running this race, you'll compare yourself to
them and that always brings confusion and disunity.

Run the race with others running at the same pace!

Find role models to see how they do it — get yourself and your family invited to
their house to hang out with them, then watch their family dynamic and learn
everything you can!

Don't forget you're not raising your family yourself, you are raising them with
the help of the Holy Spirit.

Ask the Holy Spirit for wisdom, insight and direction.

Ask the Holy Spirit to lead you in decisions you are making that involve ministry
and your family.

Be consistent — at home and in ministry. Be the same person. It's exhausting
trying to be something you're not.

And your kids and spouse will see it and resent it.

Be as attentive, as prayerful, as Spirit-led with them as you are with those you
are leading.

Don't have double standards, it brings disappointment.

Guard your kids and their friends, and the kids of others in ministry, others who
are serving.

Make a way for them, make room for them, feed them, and take them around
the place with you.

This is their life too.

Teach them to love the House and love the people.

If you are watching your kids and are worried they will do the wrong thing and
others will see it and it will cause you to be embarrassed because you are a
leader, check your pride!

Teaching your kids to understand what a good reputation is, is one thing — but
teaching them to ‘look like they are doing the right thing' all the time so people
don't talk about them becomes more about our pride than our kids learning how
to live a righteous life.





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_18.png
Pride like this will hurt you and hurt your children.

Ask for help. Be honest with how much you can do and when. It's not a
competition of who did the most with the most children in tow.

Be back up for each other. For your spouse. For your friends. For your team.
This is not a solo effort.

Let people help you. With the kids, with the juggle, with meals on busy weeks.
They are ministering to you in the way that they are gifted in, while you minister
in the way you are gifted in.

When we became the youth pastors, we had 4 kids who were under 6, and Greg
and | already held the leadership of other ministry areas. | remember saying to
Mary-Kath "We can't do this role without you and Isaac". She said 'We've got
you all. Do it, we'll have the kids, we'll come with you, we'll be home when you
can't be." They babysat, cleaned up sick, had the kids stay, picked them up
from church when they had come with us but then got too tired and melted
down and we were still with the youth. And we share the inheritance of the
youth church with them — they laboured with us for those youth!

Planning, prep and routine.

As a sanguine, | had to teach myself how to have a routine, because now
my lack of routine impacted others.

A bonus of my lack of routine is that I'm a very flexible, spontaneous person,
which is also VERY MUCH needed in ministry and family life.

Which one of those things are you strong in, and which one could you and
others benefit from you learning to do? Are you routine or spontaneous? It
takes a measured approach to both of those things.

Never talk negatively about the church or people in front of your children.
Unless you want your kids to talk negatively about the church, that is ;)





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_19.png
TIPS FROM THE KIDS

| asked the kids for some tips for tonight!

Make sure you incorporate your kids with you and don't leave them on the side-line.
| like that my parents take us with them everywhere.

It works because they always tell us what is coming up - if there's a big event, so we
know they aren't ditching us, but they are giving us the perspective that it's going to
be busy for a few weeks. Then we understand that's the focus for the next few weeks.
We know what mum and dad do is for a bigger purpose and as much as they love us
they love the church, but it's not a juggle it's an incorporation of things together.

We have routines that help us like on Sunday morning, we just know what we need to
do as a family to be ready.

Mum and Dad communicate with us and tell us ahead of time so we know what they
are doing. It's annoying when we can't find them around the church building.

Teach your kids 'pastors kid distance" where they learn to stand close enough so that
you can see that we want to talk to you, but far enough away that we can't hear the
conversation.

It can be hard because everyone thinks they know you, and you have to protect what
other people think you might be doing but you want to be normal without everyone
watching. It feels magnified because you're the pastor's kids.

When we were little mum and dad were good at putting their work away after school
and having a pause and then doing more work after we were in bed etc. So they time
managed and tried to not do work in the time we had with them after school.

(She also said she can't remember what it was like when she was little — so it can't
have traumatised her that much! — back to the guilt the enemy puts on us!!)

Choose that this is your life!
And run the race with conviction, excitement and passion.

Make the decision that you are raising your family to be all-in building the
Kingdom, in whatever calling God has for them, and then lead the way by being
strong, faithful and consistent with the leadership gifting’s God has given you.

"As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord."




Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_20.png
THOUGHTS FROM PS SUE ADAMS

Thoughts from Ps Sue Adams — we live in ministry, as a volunteer and not in a paid
staff role.
Raised 4 children, and ministry was part of my daily life.

"We have never thought of separating our church family from our family! Together we
are family and as such you look out for each other, do life together, strengthen and
encourage each other and although we have always tried to play our part, we have
also known times when we have not only had to hold up our corner of the stretcher,
but also someone else's when unexpected things happen. That's part of being a
leader. The buck stops with us :)

But God ALWAYS gives you strength and makes a way for it to always work out.

We never set out to be leaders or in ministry but serving where and when was needed,
has given us the privilege of walking out an amazing life.

The "task/ministry" was never the goal.
We just sought to strengthen and undergird THE FAMILY (God's family & our family)
through every season.

Leaders are servants and as such, they are willing to serve in whatever capacity
God has for them in whatever season they are in.

Roles change. Don't treat it as a negative. As a leader, you need to learn how
to serve and receive both "doughnuts and discipline". Remember your kids are
watching how you handle it. Lol

God has equipped you for the leadership role he wants you to play in the
season you are in. Your personal "Life/family" season is not at odds with what
God has called you to do now. God knew this! It's an asset.

Your leadership role is not only growing you, your team and your church family
but also your family. They all get to see how you organize yourself, plan, how
to handle pressure and fill gaps. It's a mini leader’s internship for them too.





Processed file: IN/1.4_Teaching_notes_-_Leading_and_Family_Life_-_Ps_Krista_Crawford copy_21.png
Involve them in what you do both at home and at church where appropriate. As
a family, we went to church twice a day. It was part of our "lifestyle" just as
getting and supporting the children in their sports and after-school activities
were. We all had to do our part in the home to make everything else outside
the home happen. When your children get involved in their own right, you can
be "amour-bearers" for them at times - team tag. And never let it become
burdensome for you to drive them to their team meeting/events etc. They are
having the opportunity to build great leadership character, serve amazing
people and make long-life friends for other seasons to come.

Let's face it, none of us is perfect nor are we God's only resource! Stuff can
happen, and pressure can come on. Things can go wrong both at home and in
our serving areas. E.g. the kids can't find their shoes, the toddler has undressed
themselves AGAIN, and someone has moved the pile of things you were meant
to take to church, you get a last-minute text to do something extra at church on
arrival and you are already scrambling to get out the door!

We've all been there.

Pray, regroup, ask for help, cry if you like but don't quit.

Go to church, do want you to need to do in HIS strength then take time to draw
aside when you get home.

Gods your boss. Go have a chat with Him in the office.

They sau...

"It's only the last straw that breaks the camel's back". In other words, don't quit
and pull out of everything.

Find out "what the final straw" was an address that because before the "final
straw" incident, you were ably shouldering the load.

Often the adjustment that needs to be made is found in your home life.

Have fun as a family - at both church and home.
Never let the task/ job squeeze out your God time.

It's the living oil we get out of the Word that makes things run smoothly,

